Chachi’s Funeral
Chachi died at 6 p.m. on Wednesday the 5th of April, and came to life again exactly twenty minutes
later. This is how it happened.
Chachi was, as a rule, a fairly tolerant, easy-going person, who waddled about the house without
paying much attention to the swarms of small sons, daughters, nephews and nieces who poured in and
out of the rooms. But she had taken a particular aversion to her ten-year old nephew, Sunil. She was a
simple woman and could not understand Sunil. He was a little brighter than her own sons, more
sensitive, and inclined to resent a scolding or a cuff across the head. He was better looking then her
own children. All this, in addition to the fact that she resented having to cook for the boy while both
his parents went out at office jobs, led her to grumble at him a little more than was really necessary.
Sunil sensed his aunt’s jealousy and fanned its flames. He was a mischievous boy, and did little
things to annoy her, like bursting paper-bags behind her while she dozed, or commenting on the width
of her pyjamas when they were hung out to dry. On the evening of the 5th of April, he had been in
particulary high spirits, and feeling hungry, entered the kitchen with the intention of helping himself to
some honey. But the honey was on the top shelf, and Sunil wasn’t quite tall enough to grasp the bottle.
He got his fingers to it but as he tilted it towards him, it fell to the ground with a crash.
Chachi reached the scene of the accident before Sunil could slip away. Removing her slipper, she
dealt him three or four furious blows across the head and shoulders. This done, she sat down on the
floor and burst into tears.
Had the beating come from someone else, Sunil might have cried; but his pride was hurt, and
instead of weeping, he muttered something under his breath and stormed out of the room.
Climbing the steps to the roof, he went to his secret hiding-place, a small hole in the wall of the
unused barsati, where he kept his marbles, kite-string, tops, and a clasp-knife. Opening the knife, he
plunged it thrice into the soft wood of the window-frame.
‘I’ll kill her!’ he whispered fiercely, ‘I’ll kill her, I’ll kill her!’
‘Who are you going to kill, Sunil?’
It was his cousin Madhu, a dark slim girl of twelve, who aided and abetted him in most of his
exploits. Sunil’s Chachi was her ‘Mammi.’ It was a very big family.
‘Chachi,’said Sunil. ‘She hates me, I know. Well, I hate her too. This time I’ll kill her.’
‘How are you going to do it?’
‘I’ll stab with this,’ He showed her the knife.
‘Three times, in the heart.’
‘But you’ll be caught. The C.I.D. are very clever. Do you want to go to jail?’
‘Won’t they hang me?’
‘They don’t hang small boys. They send them to boarding-schools.’
‘I don’t want to go to a boarding-school.’
‘Then better not kill your Chachi. At least not this way. I’ll show you how.’
Madhu produced pencil and paper, went down on her hands and knees, and screwing up her face in
sharp concentration, made a rough drawing of Chachi. Then, with a red crayon, she sketched in a big
heart in the region of Chachi’s stomach.
‘Now,’she said, ‘stab her to death!’
Sunil’s eyes shone with excitement. Here was a great new game. You could always depend on
Madhu for something original. He held the drawing against the woodwork, and plunged his knife three
times into Chachi’s pastel breast.
‘You have killed her,’said Madhu.
‘Is that all?’
‘Well, if you like, we can cremate her.’
‘All right.’
She took the torn paper, crumpled it up, produced a box of matches from Sunil’s hiding-place, lit a
match, and set fire to the paper. In a few minutes all that remained of Chachi were a few ashes.
‘Poor Chachi,’said Madhu.
‘Perhaps we shouldn’t have done it,’said Sunil beginning to feel sorry.
‘I know, we’ll put her ashes in the river!’
‘What river?’
‘Oh, the drain will do.’
Madhu gathered the ashes together, and leant over the balcony of the roof. She threw out her arms,
and the ashes drifted downwards. Some of them settled on the pomegranate tree, a few reached the
drain and were carried away by a sudden rush of kitchen-water. She turned to face Sunil.
Big tears were rolling down Sunil’s cheeks.
‘What are you crying for?’ asked Madhu.
‘Chachi. I didn’t hate her so much.’
‘Then why did you want to kill her?’
‘Oh, that was different.’
‘Come on, then, let’s go down. I have to do my homework.’
As they came down the steps from the roof, Chachi emerged from the kitchen.
‘Oh Chachi!’shouted Sunil. He rushed to her and tried to get his arms around her ample waist.
‘Now what’s up?’ grumbled Chachi. ‘What is it this time?’
‘Nothing, Chachi. I love you so much. Please don’t leave us.’
A look of suspicion crossed Chachi’s face. She frowned down the boy. But she was reassured by
the look of genuine affection that she saw in his eyes.
‘Perhaps he does care for me, after all,’she thought: and patting him gently on the head, she took
him by the hand and led him back to the kitchen.
